README.md, before:

# DbDiff - Database Schema Comparison Tool

DbDiff will be a set of tools for comparing database schemas. While it's still in early development, I use it daily to
compare schemas across different application databases and instances. The tool exports schemas to a simple,
alphabetically-sorted text format that contains just enough information to be readable and easy to compare using diff
tools like [WinMerge](https://winmerge.org/) or [Meld](https://gnome.pages.gitlab.gnome.org/meld/). For most of my
needs, this is sufficient to verify that a database is in the correct state (yes, sometimes manual checks are
necessary).

Future plans include adding a more comfortable user interface, likely built with AvaloniaUI. For now, I'm satisfied
with the terminal-based tools.

[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
[![CI](https://github.com/olibf/dbdiff/actions/workflows/ci.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/olibf/dbdiff/actions/workflows/ci.yml)
[![Release](https://github.com/olibf/dbdiff/actions/workflows/release.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/olibf/dbdiff/actions/workflows/release.yml)

## Version

Current version: **0.1.0**

## Features

- Export database schemas to text format from SQL Server, PostgreSQL and SQLite
- **Complete schema export including:**
  - Tables with full column definitions
  - Views with SQL definitions and column structures
- Deterministic, diff-friendly output format
- Alphabetically sorted tables and columns for easy comparison
- Cross-database schema comparison (compare SQL Server vs PostgreSQL schemas)
- Cross-database schema comparison with SQLite limited due to the limitations of SQLite
- Automatic database type detection from connection strings
- Configurable via CLI arguments, environment variables, or configuration files
- Structured logging with Serilog
- **Comprehensive security features:**
  - Path validation and sanitization to prevent path traversal attacks
  - Protection against writing to system directories
  - SQL injection prevention via parameterized queries
  - Input validation throughout

## Installation

### Quick Install (Windows)

### Option 1: Download Pre-built Release

1. Download the latest release for your platform from the [Releases page](https://github.com/olibf/dbdiff/releases)
2. Extract the archive to a folder of your choice (e.g., `C:\Tools\DbDiff` on Windows or `/usr/local/bin/dbdiff` on Linux)
3. Add the folder to your system PATH environment variable to run `dbdiff` from anywhere

### Option 2: Build from Source

If you're building the tool yourself, use the provided installation script:

```powershell
.\install.ps1 -Destination "C:\Tools\DbDiff"
```

This will:
1. Build and publish the project in Release mode
2. Clear the destination folder (if it exists)
3. Copy all files to the destination
4. Optionally add the destination to your PATH

**Script Parameters:**
- `-Destination` (required): Installation folder path
- `-Configuration`: Build configuration (`Release` or `Debug`, default: `Release`)
- `-SkipBuild`: Skip building and use existing publish folder

**Examples:**
```powershell
# Install to a custom location
.\install.ps1 -Destination "C:\Tools\DbDiff"

# Install Debug build
.\install.ps1 -Destination "C:\Tools\DbDiff" -Configuration Debug

# Install without rebuilding (use existing publish folder)
.\install.ps1 -Destination "C:\Tools\DbDiff" -SkipBuild
```

### Uninstall (Windows)

Use the uninstall script to remove DbDiff:

```powershell
.\uninstall.ps1 -InstallPath "C:\Tools\DbDiff"
```

This will:
1. Remove the installation folder and all its contents
2. Remove the path from your PATH environment variable (if present)

### Manual Build from Source

```bash
dotnet build
```

### Run Without Installing

```bash
cd src/DbDiff.Cli
dotnet run -- --connection "Your-Connection-String" --output schema.txt
```

Or build and run the published executable:

```bash
dotnet publish -c Release
cd src/DbDiff.Cli/bin/Release/net10.0/publish
./DbDiff.Cli --connection "Your-Connection-String"
```

## Usage

### Basic Usage

**SQL Server:**
```bash
dbdiff --connection "Server=localhost;Database=MyDb;Trusted_Connection=true;" --output schema.txt
```

**PostgreSQL:**
```bash
dbdiff --connection "Host=localhost;Database=mydb;Username=user;Password=pass" --output schema.txt
```

### Command-Line Options

- `-c, --connection <string>`: Database connection string (required)
- `-o, --output <path>`: Output file path (default: schema.txt)
- `-d, --database-type <type>`: Database type: `sqlserver`, `postgresql` (auto-detected if not specified)
- `--config <path>`: Path to configuration file (default: appsettings.json)
- `--ignore-position`: Exclude column ordinal positions from output
- `--exclude-view-definitions`: Exclude view SQL definitions from output (column structure still included)
- `-h, --help`: Show help information

### Database Type Detection

DbDiff can automatically detect the database type from your connection string:
- **SQL Server** keywords: `Server=`, `Data Source=`, `Initial Catalog=`, `Integrated Security=`
- **PostgreSQL** keywords: `Host=`, `Username=`

You can override auto-detection using the `--database-type` parameter.

### Configuration

Connection strings and output paths can be configured in multiple ways (priority order):

1. **Command-line arguments** (highest priority)
2. **Environment variables**
   - `DBDIFF_ConnectionStrings__Default`
   - `DBDIFF_Export__OutputPath`
3. **Configuration file** (`appsettings.json`)

#### Example appsettings.json

```json
{
  "ConnectionStrings": {
    "Default": "Server=localhost;Database=MyDb;Trusted_Connection=true;"
  },
  "Export": {
    "OutputPath": "schema.txt"
  },
  "Serilog": {
    "LogPath": "logs/dbdiff-.txt",
    "RollingInterval": "Day",
    "RetainedFileCountLimit": 7
  }
}
```

## Output Format

The tool exports database schemas in a custom text format optimized for diff tools:

```
DATABASE: MyDatabase
EXTRACTED: 2025-12-16T12:00:00.000Z

TABLE: dbo.Users
  COLUMN: Email
    OrdinalPosition: 3
    Type: nvarchar
    Nullable: No
    MaxLength: 255
  COLUMN: Id
    OrdinalPosition: 1
    Type: int
    Nullable: No
  COLUMN: Name
    OrdinalPosition: 2
    Type: nvarchar
    Nullable: Yes
    MaxLength: 100

VIEW: dbo.ActiveUsers
  DEFINITION:
    CREATE VIEW dbo.ActiveUsers AS
    SELECT Id, Name, Email
    FROM dbo.Users
    WHERE IsActive = 1
  COLUMN: Email
    OrdinalPosition: 3
    Type: nvarchar
    Nullable: Yes
    MaxLength: 255
  COLUMN: Id
    OrdinalPosition: 1
    Type: int
    Nullable: No
  COLUMN: Name
    OrdinalPosition: 2
    Type: nvarchar
    Nullable: Yes
    MaxLength: 100
```

Features:
- Tables, views, and columns are alphabetically sorted
- Views include complete SQL definitions for comparison
- Consistent formatting and indentation
- One property per line
- Deterministic output for reliable diffing

## Architecture

The project follows **Hexagonal Architecture** (Ports & Adapters) with clear separation of concerns:

```
┌─────────────┐
│  DbDiff.Cli │ ──► Entry point, CLI argument parsing
└──────┬──────┘
       │
┌──────▼───────────────┐
│ DbDiff.Application   │ ──► Use cases, DTOs, Formatters
└──────┬───────────────┘
       │
┌──────▼────────────┐        ┌──────────────────────┐
│  DbDiff.Domain    │ ◄───── │ DbDiff.Infrastructure│
│  (Port Interfaces)│        │  (Adapters: MSSQL)   │
└───────────────────┘        └──────────────────────┘
```

### Project Structure

- **DbDiff.Domain**: Core domain entities and port interfaces (no dependencies)
- **DbDiff.Application**: Application services, DTOs, and formatters
- **DbDiff.Infrastructure**: Database-specific implementations (MSSQL)
- **DbDiff.Cli**: Console application entry point

## Supported Databases

- ✅ Microsoft SQL Server (MSSQL)
- ✅ PostgreSQL
- ✅ SQLite

### Cross-Database Schema Comparison

DbDiff uses a consistent output format for all database types, making it possible to compare schemas across different database platforms:

```bash
# Export SQL Server schema
dbdiff --connection "Server=localhost;Database=MyDb;Trusted_Connection=true;" --output sqlserver-schema.txt

# Export PostgreSQL schema
dbdiff --connection "Host=localhost;Database=mydb;Username=user;Password=pass" --output postgres-schema.txt

# Exort SQLite schema
DbDiff.Cli --connection "Data Source=path-to-file/database.db" --database-type sqlite --output sqlite-schema.txt

# Compare using your favorite diff tool
diff sqlserver-schema.txt postgres-schema.txt
diff sqlserver-schema.txt sqlite-schema.txt
```

**Note:** Data types will differ between platforms (e.g., SQL Server's `nvarchar` vs PostgreSQL's `character varying`), but the consistent format allows you to easily identify structural differences.

## Development

### Prerequisites

- .NET 10.0 SDK or later
- SQL Server (for SQL Server support)
- PostgreSQL (for PostgreSQL support)
- SQLite datbase file

### Dependencies

- **Microsoft.Data.SqlClient**: SQL Server connectivity
- **Microsoft.Data.SqLite**: SQLite connectivity
- **Npgsql**: PostgreSQL connectivity
- **Serilog**: Structured logging
- **Microsoft.Extensions.***: Configuration and dependency injection

### Running Tests

```bash
dotnet test
```

### CI/CD with GitHub Actions

This project includes automated workflows for continuous integration and releases:

#### Continuous Integration (CI)

The CI workflow runs automatically on every push or pull request to `main` or `develop` branches:
- Restores dependencies
- Builds the project in Release mode
- Runs all tests
- Uploads build artifacts

#### Pull Request Checks

Pull requests trigger multi-platform testing on:
- Ubuntu (Linux)
- Windows
- macOS

This ensures compatibility across all supported platforms.

#### Automated Releases

To create a release:

1. Update the version in `CHANGELOG.md` following semantic versioning
2. Commit your changes
3. Create and push a version tag:

```bash
git tag v1.0.0
git push origin v1.0.0
```

The release workflow automatically:
- Builds self-contained executables for:
  - Windows x64
  - Linux x64
  - macOS x64 (Intel)
  - macOS ARM64 (Apple Silicon)
- Creates release archives (ZIP for Windows, tar.gz for Linux/macOS)
- Creates a GitHub release with all binaries attached
- Links to the CHANGELOG for release notes

**Note:** GitHub Actions requires appropriate permissions. Ensure your repository settings allow Actions to create releases.

## Logging

Logs are written to the `logs/` directory by default. The log file path and retention policy can be configured in `appsettings.json`:

```json
{
  "Serilog": {
    "LogPath": "logs/dbdiff-.txt",
    "RollingInterval": "Day",
    "RetainedFileCountLimit": 7
  }
}
```

## Roadmap

See [CHANGELOG.md](CHANGELOG.md) for version history and planned features.

### Future Enhancements

- Schema comparison (diff) functionality
- Support for additional database objects (indexes, foreign keys, stored procedures, functions, triggers, etc.)
- GUI application using AvaloniaUI
- Multiple output formats (JSON, YAML, SQL DDL)
- Support for additional databases (MySQL, Oracle, etc.)

## Security

DbDiff takes security seriously. We've implemented comprehensive security measures including:

- **Path validation**: All file paths are validated and sanitized to prevent path traversal attacks
- **SQL injection prevention**: All database queries use parameterized statements
- **Input validation**: Comprehensive validation of all user inputs

For detailed security information, please see [SECURITY.md](SECURITY.md).

### Reporting Security Vulnerabilities

If you discover a security vulnerability, please report it responsibly by contacting the maintainers directly rather than creating a public issue.

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please follow the existing code structure and architectural principles.

By contributing to this project, you agree that your contributions will be licensed under the MIT License.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE.md](LICENSE.md) file for details.

### MIT License Summary

- ✅ Commercial use allowed
- ✅ Modification allowed
- ✅ Distribution allowed
- ✅ Private use allowed
- ❗ License and copyright notice must be included

Commit message:

Revise README for migration to Codeberg
Updated README to reflect migration from GitHub to Codeberg, including reasons for the shift and benefits of using Codeberg.

README.md, after:

# MOVED TO CODEBERG

## Migrating from GitHub to Codeberg

Many developers are shifting from GitHub to [Codeberg](https://codeberg.org/), a European, community-driven platform. This move is largely fueled by a desire for greater data sovereignty and a commitment to open-source ethics.
Why Developers are Leaving GitHub
- **Corporate Ownership**: Concerns over Microsoft’s influence on data privacy and potential censorship.
- **Legal Risks**: Hosting with US-based companies subjects data to American jurisdiction, specifically laws like the Patriot Act and FISA, which allow broad government surveillance and data access.
- **Performance**: Increasing reports of GitHub becoming bloated or unreliable, particularly with CI/CD tools.
- **AI Ethics**: Friction regarding GitHub Copilot and the use of open-source code for training proprietary models.

## Why Choose Codeberg?
- **Non-Profit Governance**: Operated by a European non-profit dedicated to transparency, not shareholders.
- **Legal Protections**: Benefiting from stricter European data protection regulations.
- **Seamless Transition**: Offers a familiar Gitea-based interface that minimizes the learning curve.
- **Community First**: Focuses on serving the developer community rather than monetizing user data.

[https://codeberg.org/olibf/DbDiff](https://codeberg.org/olibf/DbDiff)

# DbDiff - Database Schema Comparison Tool

DbDiff will be a set of tools for comparing database schemas. While it's still in early development, I use it daily to
compare schemas across different application databases and instances. The tool exports schemas to a simple,
alphabetically-sorted text format that contains just enough information to be readable and easy to compare using diff
tools like [WinMerge](https://winmerge.org/) or [Meld](https://gnome.pages.gitlab.gnome.org/meld/). For most of my
needs, this is sufficient to verify that a database is in the correct state (yes, sometimes manual checks are
necessary).

Future plans include adding a more comfortable user interface, likely built with AvaloniaUI. For now, I'm satisfied
with the terminal-based tools.

[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
[![CI](https://github.com/olibf/dbdiff/actions/workflows/ci.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/olibf/dbdiff/actions/workflows/ci.yml)
[![Release](https://github.com/olibf/dbdiff/actions/workflows/release.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/olibf/dbdiff/actions/workflows/release.yml)

## Version

Current version: **0.1.0**

## Features

- Export database schemas to text format from SQL Server, PostgreSQL and SQLite
- **Complete schema export including:**
  - Tables with full column definitions
  - Views with SQL definitions and column structures
- Deterministic, diff-friendly output format
- Alphabetically sorted tables and columns for easy comparison
- Cross-database schema comparison (compare SQL Server vs PostgreSQL schemas)
- Cross-database schema comparison with SQLite limited due to the limitations of SQLite
- Automatic database type detection from connection strings
- Configurable via CLI arguments, environment variables, or configuration files
- Structured logging with Serilog
- **Comprehensive security features:**
  - Path validation and sanitization to prevent path traversal attacks
  - Protection against writing to system directories
  - SQL injection prevention via parameterized queries
  - Input validation throughout

## Installation

### Quick Install (Windows)

### Option 1: Download Pre-built Release

1. Download the latest release for your platform from the [Releases page](https://github.com/olibf/dbdiff/releases)
2. Extract the archive to a folder of your choice (e.g., `C:\Tools\DbDiff` on Windows or `/usr/local/bin/dbdiff` on Linux)
3. Add the folder to your system PATH environment variable to run `dbdiff` from anywhere

### Option 2: Build from Source

If you're building the tool yourself, use the provided installation script:

```powershell
.\install.ps1 -Destination "C:\Tools\DbDiff"
```

This will:
1. Build and publish the project in Release mode
2. Clear the destination folder (if it exists)
3. Copy all files to the destination
4. Optionally add the destination to your PATH

**Script Parameters:**
- `-Destination` (required): Installation folder path
- `-Configuration`: Build configuration (`Release` or `Debug`, default: `Release`)
- `-SkipBuild`: Skip building and use existing publish folder

**Examples:**
```powershell
# Install to a custom location
.\install.ps1 -Destination "C:\Tools\DbDiff"

# Install Debug build
.\install.ps1 -Destination "C:\Tools\DbDiff" -Configuration Debug

# Install without rebuilding (use existing publish folder)
.\install.ps1 -Destination "C:\Tools\DbDiff" -SkipBuild
```

### Uninstall (Windows)

Use the uninstall script to remove DbDiff:

```powershell
.\uninstall.ps1 -InstallPath "C:\Tools\DbDiff"
```

This will:
1. Remove the installation folder and all its contents
2. Remove the path from your PATH environment variable (if present)

### Manual Build from Source

```bash
dotnet build
```

### Run Without Installing

```bash
cd src/DbDiff.Cli
dotnet run -- --connection "Your-Connection-String" --output schema.txt
```

Or build and run the published executable:

```bash
dotnet publish -c Release
cd src/DbDiff.Cli/bin/Release/net10.0/publish
./DbDiff.Cli --connection "Your-Connection-String"
```

## Usage

### Basic Usage

**SQL Server:**
```bash
dbdiff --connection "Server=localhost;Database=MyDb;Trusted_Connection=true;" --output schema.txt
```

**PostgreSQL:**
```bash
dbdiff --connection "Host=localhost;Database=mydb;Username=user;Password=pass" --output schema.txt
```

### Command-Line Options

- `-c, --connection <string>`: Database connection string (required)
- `-o, --output <path>`: Output file path (default: schema.txt)
- `-d, --database-type <type>`: Database type: `sqlserver`, `postgresql` (auto-detected if not specified)
- `--config <path>`: Path to configuration file (default: appsettings.json)
- `--ignore-position`: Exclude column ordinal positions from output
- `--exclude-view-definitions`: Exclude view SQL definitions from output (column structure still included)
- `-h, --help`: Show help information

### Database Type Detection

DbDiff can automatically detect the database type from your connection string:
- **SQL Server** keywords: `Server=`, `Data Source=`, `Initial Catalog=`, `Integrated Security=`
- **PostgreSQL** keywords: `Host=`, `Username=`

You can override auto-detection using the `--database-type` parameter.

### Configuration

Connection strings and output paths can be configured in multiple ways (priority order):

1. **Command-line arguments** (highest priority)
2. **Environment variables**
   - `DBDIFF_ConnectionStrings__Default`
   - `DBDIFF_Export__OutputPath`
3. **Configuration file** (`appsettings.json`)

#### Example appsettings.json

```json
{
  "ConnectionStrings": {
    "Default": "Server=localhost;Database=MyDb;Trusted_Connection=true;"
  },
  "Export": {
    "OutputPath": "schema.txt"
  },
  "Serilog": {
    "LogPath": "logs/dbdiff-.txt",
    "RollingInterval": "Day",
    "RetainedFileCountLimit": 7
  }
}
```

## Output Format

The tool exports database schemas in a custom text format optimized for diff tools:

```
DATABASE: MyDatabase
EXTRACTED: 2025-12-16T12:00:00.000Z

TABLE: dbo.Users
  COLUMN: Email
    OrdinalPosition: 3
    Type: nvarchar
    Nullable: No
    MaxLength: 255
  COLUMN: Id
    OrdinalPosition: 1
    Type: int
    Nullable: No
  COLUMN: Name
    OrdinalPosition: 2
    Type: nvarchar
    Nullable: Yes
    MaxLength: 100

VIEW: dbo.ActiveUsers
  DEFINITION:
    CREATE VIEW dbo.ActiveUsers AS
    SELECT Id, Name, Email
    FROM dbo.Users
    WHERE IsActive = 1
  COLUMN: Email
    OrdinalPosition: 3
    Type: nvarchar
    Nullable: Yes
    MaxLength: 255
  COLUMN: Id
    OrdinalPosition: 1
    Type: int
    Nullable: No
  COLUMN: Name
    OrdinalPosition: 2
    Type: nvarchar
    Nullable: Yes
    MaxLength: 100
```

Features:
- Tables, views, and columns are alphabetically sorted
- Views include complete SQL definitions for comparison
- Consistent formatting and indentation
- One property per line
- Deterministic output for reliable diffing

## Architecture

The project follows **Hexagonal Architecture** (Ports & Adapters) with clear separation of concerns:

```
┌─────────────┐
│  DbDiff.Cli │ ──► Entry point, CLI argument parsing
└──────┬──────┘
       │
┌──────▼───────────────┐
│ DbDiff.Application   │ ──► Use cases, DTOs, Formatters
└──────┬───────────────┘
       │
┌──────▼────────────┐        ┌──────────────────────┐
│  DbDiff.Domain    │ ◄───── │ DbDiff.Infrastructure│
│  (Port Interfaces)│        │  (Adapters: MSSQL)   │
└───────────────────┘        └──────────────────────┘
```

### Project Structure

- **DbDiff.Domain**: Core domain entities and port interfaces (no dependencies)
- **DbDiff.Application**: Application services, DTOs, and formatters
- **DbDiff.Infrastructure**: Database-specific implementations (MSSQL)
- **DbDiff.Cli**: Console application entry point

## Supported Databases

- ✅ Microsoft SQL Server (MSSQL)
- ✅ PostgreSQL
- ✅ SQLite

### Cross-Database Schema Comparison

DbDiff uses a consistent output format for all database types, making it possible to compare schemas across different database platforms:

```bash
# Export SQL Server schema
dbdiff --connection "Server=localhost;Database=MyDb;Trusted_Connection=true;" --output sqlserver-schema.txt

# Export PostgreSQL schema
dbdiff --connection "Host=localhost;Database=mydb;Username=user;Password=pass" --output postgres-schema.txt

# Exort SQLite schema
DbDiff.Cli --connection "Data Source=path-to-file/database.db" --database-type sqlite --output sqlite-schema.txt

# Compare using your favorite diff tool
diff sqlserver-schema.txt postgres-schema.txt
diff sqlserver-schema.txt sqlite-schema.txt
```

**Note:** Data types will differ between platforms (e.g., SQL Server's `nvarchar` vs PostgreSQL's `character varying`), but the consistent format allows you to easily identify structural differences.

## Development

### Prerequisites

- .NET 10.0 SDK or later
- SQL Server (for SQL Server support)
- PostgreSQL (for PostgreSQL support)
- SQLite datbase file

### Dependencies

- **Microsoft.Data.SqlClient**: SQL Server connectivity
- **Microsoft.Data.SqLite**: SQLite connectivity
- **Npgsql**: PostgreSQL connectivity
- **Serilog**: Structured logging
- **Microsoft.Extensions.***: Configuration and dependency injection

### Running Tests

```bash
dotnet test
```

### CI/CD with GitHub Actions

This project includes automated workflows for continuous integration and releases:

#### Continuous Integration (CI)

The CI workflow runs automatically on every push or pull request to `main` or `develop` branches:
- Restores dependencies
- Builds the project in Release mode
- Runs all tests
- Uploads build artifacts

#### Pull Request Checks

Pull requests trigger multi-platform testing on:
- Ubuntu (Linux)
- Windows
- macOS

This ensures compatibility across all supported platforms.

#### Automated Releases

To create a release:

1. Update the version in `CHANGELOG.md` following semantic versioning
2. Commit your changes
3. Create and push a version tag:

```bash
git tag v1.0.0
git push origin v1.0.0
```

The release workflow automatically:
- Builds self-contained executables for:
  - Windows x64
  - Linux x64
  - macOS x64 (Intel)
  - macOS ARM64 (Apple Silicon)
- Creates release archives (ZIP for Windows, tar.gz for Linux/macOS)
- Creates a GitHub release with all binaries attached
- Links to the CHANGELOG for release notes

**Note:** GitHub Actions requires appropriate permissions. Ensure your repository settings allow Actions to create releases.

## Logging

Logs are written to the `logs/` directory by default. The log file path and retention policy can be configured in `appsettings.json`:

```json
{
  "Serilog": {
    "LogPath": "logs/dbdiff-.txt",
    "RollingInterval": "Day",
    "RetainedFileCountLimit": 7
  }
}
```

## Roadmap

See [CHANGELOG.md](CHANGELOG.md) for version history and planned features.

### Future Enhancements

- Schema comparison (diff) functionality
- Support for additional database objects (indexes, foreign keys, stored procedures, functions, triggers, etc.)
- GUI application using AvaloniaUI
- Multiple output formats (JSON, YAML, SQL DDL)
- Support for additional databases (MySQL, Oracle, etc.)

## Security

DbDiff takes security seriously. We've implemented comprehensive security measures including:

- **Path validation**: All file paths are validated and sanitized to prevent path traversal attacks
- **SQL injection prevention**: All database queries use parameterized statements
- **Input validation**: Comprehensive validation of all user inputs

For detailed security information, please see [SECURITY.md](SECURITY.md).

### Reporting Security Vulnerabilities

If you discover a security vulnerability, please report it responsibly by contacting the maintainers directly rather than creating a public issue.

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please follow the existing code structure and architectural principles.

By contributing to this project, you agree that your contributions will be licensed under the MIT License.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE.md](LICENSE.md) file for details.

### MIT License Summary

- ✅ Commercial use allowed
- ✅ Modification allowed
- ✅ Distribution allowed
- ✅ Private use allowed
- ❗ License and copyright notice must be included
